Friends here we're implementing
a simple shell script to automate the installation of any Tomcat.
First, I will go with the particular version of Tomcat offer that I will
modify our shells care so that it will work for any version of your Tomcat.
Let me open my terminal.
So here I'm creating a directory called Palm cats.
So let me navigate into that.
So in this location,
I will install my different Tomcat versions with the help of a shell script.
Now, before writing your shell script,
always first get the manual steps for your requirement.
Means manual commands.
Suppose if you want to install your Tomcat firstly,
how to download or tar.gz file,
then offer that you have to extract it.
Then if you want to rename, you can rename it.
Let me show you them step-by-step.
I need to get a URL first to download my required Tomcat Washington.
Then go to official website off your Tomcat,
simply such with the Tomcat.
Then very first link you'll get
official website for your Tomcat in just click on download.
On the left side you have download option.
Then from that select your required Tomcat Watson.
Let me click on suppose Tomcat cat ate.
Then the right side just come down.
So somewhere choreographing here you have a tar.gz file.
Just to do the right-click on that and select the link location,
copy link location, then come back to your terminal.
Simply run W, get that,
copy the URL. No, see the result.
It is downloading that particular Tomcat tar.gz file.
So once it is downloaded,
then we'll go with our next steps. Just wait for that.
Yes, it has been done.
Then simply run LSF analyte?
Yes, it has been downloaded.
But this is the downloaded file with the tar.gz that I want to extract it.
Simply write thought I fund you or Apache Tomcat tar.gz.
And now see that it has been extracted with this name.
But I don't want to keep this name simply.
I want to keep it as Tomcat eight.
Then you have to move it Apache Tomcat to Tomcat eight.
Now see the result you are having only Tomcat 800 DO download tar.gz.
Now let me remove your downloaded tar file.
Now you're having Tomcat aid.
Right now, just runs history command and see the result.
What are the commands you ran?
Just to copy them and paste it into your file first.
And remove the remaining commands.
Actually we need only W get command,
then extract ping command,
then renaming, then remove the download tar.gz.
So now if you want to install Tomcat ate only for Tom Catania, These are the steps.
Now let me write a shell script for this.
Before writing your shell script,
Let me remove your Tomcat eight because I want
to install that with the help of a shell script.
Now open shell script called install, Tomcat dot SH.
Then write very first-line us, shebang line.
Then paste your four commands.
Let me remove that task spaces.
That's it.
Now savy and provide the exclusion permissions for your script.
Now run that so that it will download
your.tar file and it'll extract it and it will rename it.
And then finally it will remove the downloaded tar.gz.
Those are the four steps.
Now these four steps,
we are running through a shell script.
That's it.
Just wait. Once it is completed.
Our requirement has been reached for concrete,
not for other versions than that.
Only Tomcat eighties there.
Now if you see content in Tomcat eight,
yes, content is there.
Now, if you open your shell script,
these four steps or four your Tomcat eight.
Suppose if I want to install Tomcat nine,
then again I how to modify these Tomcat nine URL.
And here also I need to modify some nine versions here.
Also here also I need to modify for steps.
But if it is a shell script,
it should work for any Tomcat versions in such a way it has to develop.
Now for that, I am working, observe that.
So guys, now I'm modifying the script such that it will work for any Tomcat version.
So I'm taking a variable called required Tomcat,
where n equals 2.
First let me go through this butler version only.
That is, let me take that is a washroom, right?
Washington is always a string.
Eight dot phi dot 4-7.
Anyway, you don't have spaces in your string,
then no need to take quotations,
but this is my practice.
Basically I will take quotations for your strings.
Fine.
Now, observe your URL.
This URL also I will store into some variable, let's say URL.
I'm taking a variable name as URL,
And in that, I stored my URL.
But instead of writing a 2.5a dot for seven,
I can write this variable required.
Let me write simply REQ.
Now instead of writing a 2.5a dot 4-7 in terms of variable,
I can replace this a dot-dot-dot 4-7 with the required Tomcat version.
Now see that. Now I'm coming to here.
I'm modifying anti script in terms of variables.
Removed this H dot 47,
right, with your dollar.
Curly braces required, Tomcat,
Wusheng, close your curly braces, matching.
And if you observe somewhere you are having once again a dot phi dot 4-7.
Now let me remove that. There also,
I am writing required Tomcat. What?
Fine.
Now, if you observe your URL except this remaining entire ease in terms of variables.
So that if I change this a dot for someone with a required version,
automatically you are URL,
you are going to get for that particular version.
Now let me try to modify these eight also.
See if you observe what is the major version eight,
that AD is there here.
That means if you are watching,
the first character is you are writing here.
Now that's why I'm going to get that in terms of variables.
So Tomcat, I'm defining one more variable, Tomcat, measure version.
I'm taking singly major version to see guys, you know,
if our aid simply echo dollar required Tomcat version,
you will display the content on that output playing cut command.
And we'd help A5 and see I'm getting first character,
say from a previous concepts,
I am writing this current command.
And this entire thing is a command.
That's the reason whenever if you want to assign the command or put in the variable,
you had to write that command inside of dollar parentheses.
Or you can also use in place of dollar parenthesis backstage. Both are valid.
Now, just come to here 882,
number eight and remove that,
just that also write in terms of variables,
that is Tomcat measure version, that's a fine.
Now, wherever you are having versions,
further versions already we have in terms of variables, right?
C.
Now here also, I'm reading required Tomcat wash. And then here
also I will write dollar required Tomcat Washington and in the same lane, Tomcat eight.
What is the eight hour major version?
Just write that in terms of Tomcat measure.
Shen, latch it in last.
And also we want to remove the download tar.gz c a dot for dot a dot phi dot 4-7.
That is there in terms of a variable.
No, let me write Tomcat Washington.
That's a fine.
Now, except to first-line remaining all are in terms of variables.
So whenever if we change this value automatically,
the remaining data will be changed.
Right? Then, see, you have written you are URL in the,
sorry, you have to remove this w get because there is only one.
Now, I want to download that URL then simply write w get dollar URL.
The meaning for this is W get in place of dollar URL.
It will replace this entire line so that you are downloading W,
get that URL that say, now let me save it.
And let me remove your existing Tomcat eight.
Now see your script once. And I'm running back.
Say there isn't. It is downloading.
So first time verifying for Tomcat egg version,
then later we'll work with Tomcat any required version.
That's it.
Now verify that in the current location
where it has been created on contained or not, yes.
You can see the content into that.
Yes, it is there. Now, same script.
Suppose if you want to work with the nine,
just to go to first-line and modify your required version.
Let me go to your URL page.
Suppose I want to download Tomcat nine.
Sorry, I'll go onto documentation.
We want to download, right?
Yeah, Tomcat nine click on that.
Right-click.
Copy link location. First, verify that.
What is the difference between your Tomcat 89 link only we have Tomcat eight link.
Now, I pasted it with Tomcat nine.
Verify these 22 lines are same except your versions see here,
here, eighties, they're here, nine is there.
You are complete version main.js B27 is there.
And the many places you are,
except you are watching until you are the same.
That's why simply I am replacing here that version.
That's it. Now let me save it and run our shell script.
Now see the result.
It has been done.
Right.
Now. Check it.
Go Tomcat nineties there and see the content in Tomcat nine.
Yes, it is there.
And here, I don't want to
provide the version of your required Tom get
inside of a script directly while running my script itself,
I want to provide the Washington.
Yes, there is a possibility for that as of no.
Just observed that while going forward, we'll discuss that.
Let me come in the first line.
Then. Just I am writing some modification here as of no, don't worry about this.
There is an option to provide your required Washington from command line.
Will discuss about this in detail in our further sessions as Huffman, just observe that.
So before that, I'm removing Tomcat a ton Tomcat nine.
Naturally no need to remove before installing.
You can also check whether Potter Watson is already there in your hosts or not.
So for that you need some advanced level concepts.
We'll discuss that further sessions. For time being.
You just assume that there are no tom Get versions.
Now I'm running our Tomcat script just by providing the required version.
Let me get Wusheng.
Suppose nine version 99 dot-dot-dot 27.
See simply I'm poverty.
Nine dot dot 27.
No need to open a script. No need to.
Eddie was kept directly while running your script itself.
Again, poverty we're washing. It will work.
And while running your script,
suppose if you are not providing the version number,
then how to handle.
So for that also, you need some advanced level concepts.
We'll discuss that in our further sessions for timing and
just consider a simple shell script to install any Butler Tomcat versions.
Okay, yeah, once it is done,
we'll get our DOM, get nine bunkers.
That's a fine guys.
Thank you for watching this video.